Bug 1581647 - Add glean-based telemetry to mozregression (#569)
mozilla/mozregression: docs/documentation/telemetry.md

---
layout: documentation
title: Telemetry
doc_order: 100
description: About the use of Telemetry in mozregression
---

# Telemetry

> Unless explicitly disabled, mozregression will send an anonymized telemetry "ping" (a small JSON-document) to Mozilla's servers on each use (command-line invocation in the case of console mozregression, each bisection or single run in the case of the GUI).

Reviewer: The anonymization part is still around :-P See [this comment](https://github.com/mozilla/mozregression/pull/569#discussion_r399119612).

> Unless explicitly disabled, mozregression will send an anonymized telemetry "ping" (a small JSON-document) to Mozilla's servers on each use (command-line invocation in the case of console mozregression, each bisection or single run in the case of the GUI).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Unless explicitly disabled, mozregression will send a telemetry ["ping"](https://mozilla.github.io/glean/book/user/pings/index.html) to Mozilla's servers on each use (command-line invocation in the case of console mozregression, each bisection or single run in the case of the GUI).
```

This ping does not contain any personally identifiable information and
is intentionally limited to what we need to understand the basics
of how mozregression is being used (for example, understanding
which applications are being bisected). For an up-to-date list of
what is being collected, please see this [automatically
generated report](https://github.com/mozilla/mozregression/blob/master/docs/glean/metrics.md).

The purpose of this data gathering is only to improve mozregression itself by understanding the scope of its environment and usage, and
will not be broadly shared except in aggregated form. Although not a consumer product, mozregression strives to follow Mozilla's general guidelines on [lean data practices](https://www.mozilla.org/en-US/about/policy/lean-data/).

## How to disable

We encourage you to leave Telemetry enabled -- if we know that people
are getting value out of mozregression, it provides an incentive to
make it better! That said, disabling mozregression is easy. In the

> command-line variant, you can set `enable-telemetry` to no inside your [configuration file](./configuration.md). In the GUI version, simply untick the box "Enable Telemetry" in the preferences dialog (after clicking "Show Advanced Options").

Reviewer: ```suggestion
command-line variant, you can set `enable-telemetry` to `no` inside your [configuration file](./configuration.md). In the GUI version, simply untick the box "Enable Telemetry" in the preferences dialog (after clicking "Show Advanced Options").
```

---
layout: documentation
title: Telemetry
doc_order: 100
description: About the use of Telemetry in mozregression
---

# Telemetry

Unless explicitly disabled, mozregression will send an anonymized telemetry ping (a small JSON-document) to Mozilla's servers on each use (command-line invocation in the case of console mozregression, each bisection or single run in the case of the GUI).

> This data is anonymized and not personally identifiable, it contains only:

Reviewer: I would be very cautious in stating this: while this ping doesn't contain PII, there's no active effort into performing deep anonymization.

Author: Good point, i'll remove the term "anonymization"

> - A random client id (e.g. `5a26b9f7-c025-4858-abce-63ca73ceebf0`)

Reviewer: If you link to the glean docs below, then you can also drop this sentence.

Author: Done

> - Some very basic information on the environment in which mozregression

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- [Minimal information](https://mozilla.github.io/glean/book/user/pings/index.html#ping-sections) on the environment in which mozregression
```

Reviewer: I think glean_parser should do a better job at documenting that pings also contain some information about the device. I filed [this bug](https://bugzilla.mozilla.org/show_bug.cgi?id=1625412) to improve our docs so that you don't have to mention it.

Author: Great, I'll just take this out and refer people to the autogenerated docs

  is running (e.g. operating system)
- Some other metrics designed to measure and understand the nature of
  usage of mozregression (for example, which applications are being bisected) -- for an up-to-date list, please see this [automatically
  generated report](https://github.com/mozilla/mozregression/blob/master/docs/glean/metrics.md).

> The purpose of this data gathering is only to improve mozregression itself by understanding the scope of its environment and usage, and

Reviewer: This sould really go into the `pings.yaml` ping description, so that it shows up in the autogenerated docs.
